README.md, before:

# django-flag

This app lets users of your site flag content as inappropriate or spam.

PS : the version 0.3 is a big rewrite, but with retrocompatibility kept in mind. 0.4 broke a little this compatibility by updating fields inmodels.

## Where's Wally ?

The original code is here : https://github.com/pinax/django-flag
This fork (by twidi) is here : https://github.com/twidi/django-flag

## Installation

*django-flag* has no requirements, except *django* (1.3) of course

`pip install git+git://github.com/twidi/django-flag.git#egg=django-flag`

## Settings

The behavior of *django-flag* can be tweaked with some settings :

### FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS

Set `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` to False to disallow users to add a comment when flagging an object.
Default to `True`.

### FLAG_LIMIT_SAME_OBJECT_FOR_USER

Set `FLAG_LIMIT_SAME_OBJECT_FOR_USER` to a number to limit the times a user can flag a single object.
If 0, there is no limit.
Default to `0`.

### FLAG_LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT

Set `FLAG_LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT` to a number to limit the times an object can be flagged.
If 0, there is no limit.
Default to `0`.

### FLAG_MODELS

Set `FLAG_MODELS` to a list/tuple of models to limit the models that can be flagged.
For each model, use a string like '*applabel.modelname*'.
If not set (`None`), all models can be flagged. If set to an empty list/tuple, no model can be flagged.
Default to `None`.

### FLAG_STATUSES

Set `FLAG_STATUSES` to a list of tuples to set the available statuses for each flagged content.
The first entry MUST be a (small: less than 256) positive integer
The default status used when a user flag an object is the first of this list.
Default to :

```python
FLAG_STATUSES = [
    (1, _("flagged")),
    (2, _("flag rejected by moderator")),
    (3, _("creator notified")),
    (4, _("content removed by creator")),
    (5, _("content removed by moderator")),
]
```

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` to `True` if you want to have emails sent when object are flagged.
See others settings `SEND_MAILS_*` for more configuration
Default to `False`

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_TO
Set `FLAG_SEMD_MAILS_TO` to a list of email addresses to sent mails when an object is flagged.
Each entry can be either a single email address, or a tuple with (name, email address) but only the mail will be used.
Default to `settings.ADMINS`


### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_FROM
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS_FROM` to an email address to use as the send of mails sent when an object is flagged.
Default to `settings.DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL`

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES` to define when to send mails for flags.
This settings is a list of tuple, each line defining a rule.
A rule is a tuple with two entries, the first one is the minimum flag for an object for which this rule apply, and the second one is the frequency :
Example : `(4, 3)` = if an object is flagged 4 times or more, send a mail every 3 flags (4, 7 and 10)
If this rule is followed by `(10, 5)`, it will be used only when an object is flagged between 5 (included) and 10 times (not included), then the `10` rules will apply (10, 15, 20...)
A mail will be send if the LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT is reached, ignoring the rules.
Default to `[(1, 1)` : send a mail for each flag (if `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` is `True`)

Exemple:

```python
# mail will be send for 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25...
FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES = [
    (1, 1),  # send a mail for every flag
    (4, 3),  # send a mail every 3 flags starting to the 5th flag
    (10, 5), # send a mail every 5 flags starting to the 10th flag
]
```

### FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS
Use `FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS` if you want to override the global settings for a specific model.
It's a dict with the string represetation of the model (`myapp.mymodel`) as key, and a dict as value. This last dict can have zero, one or more of the settings described in this module (`MODELS` and of course `MODELS_SETTINGS`), using names WITHOUT the `FLAG_` prefix
Default to an empty dict : each model will use the global settings

Exemple:

```python
FLAG_SEND_MAILS = True
FLAG_SEND_MAILS_TO = ('foo@example.com',)
FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS = {
    'myapp.mymodel': {
        'SEND_MAILS_TO': ('bar@example.com', 'baz@example.com',)
    }
    'otherapp.othermodel': {
        'SEND_MAILS': False,
        'STATUSES': [
            (1, 'Simple flag'),
            (2, 'Rejected by moderator'),
            (3, 'Rejected by super-moderator'),
            (4, 'Accepted by moderator'),
            (5, 'Accepted by super-moderator'),
        ]
    },
}
```

### FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST
Use `FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST` if you want the flags from untrusted users to be deleted

Exemple:

```python
FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST = True
```

### FLAG_TRUST_TIME
This is the number of days after a user suscribed before he is 'trusted' and thus can flag content

Exemple

```python
FLAG_TRUST_TIME = 3
```

## Usage

* add `flag` to your INSTALLED_APPS
* add the urls to your urls : `url(r'^flag/', include('flag.urls')),`


*djang-flag* provides some usefull templatetags and filters to be included via `{% load flag_tags %}`.

There are two ways to use these templatetags to use *django-flag* :

### Only the flag form

On any page you can use the `flag` templatetag to add a form for flagging the object.
This form will or will not have a comment box, depending of your `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` settings.
This templatetag is an *inclusion_tag* calling the template `flag/flag_form.html`, so you can easily override it.

This default template is as simple as :

```html
<form method="POST" action="{% url flag %}">{% csrf_token %}
    {{ form.as_p }}
    {% if next %}<input type="hidden" name="next" value="{{ next }}{% endif %}" />
    <input type="submit" value="Submit Flag" /></td>
</form>
```

Usage:

```html
{% load flag_tags %}
{% flag an_object %}
```

If you want a moderator (user with `is_staff`) to update the status of the flagged content (default to 1 for a normal flag), you can use the `flag_with_status` temlatetag instead of the `flag` one. They both work the same way.

### Flag via a confirmation page

If you want the form to be on an other page, which play the role of a confirmation page, you can use the `flag_confirm_url` template filter, which will insert the url of the confirm page for this object.
This url is linked to a view which will display the confirm form (with or without a comment box, depending of your `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` settings.) in a template `flag/confirm.html`.

This default template is as simple as :

```html
{% block flag_form %}
    {% include "flag/flag_form.html" %}
{% endblock %}
```

You can override the template used by this view by two ways :

* create your own `flag/confirm.html` template
* create, for each model that can be flagged and for which you want a specific template, a template `flag/confirm_applabel_modelname.html` (by replacing *app_label* and *model_name* by the good values, ex. `auth` and `user` for the `User` model in `django.contrib.auth`).

Usage of the filter:

```html
{% load flag_tags %}
<a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url }}">flag</a>
```

If you want a moderator (user with `is_staff`) to update the status of the flagged content (default to 1 for a normal flag), you can use the `flag_confirm_url_with_status` filter instead of the `flag_confirm_url` one. They both work the same way.

### Signal

When an object is flagged, a signal `content_flagged` is sent, with the `flagged_content` and `flagged_instance` objects (`flagged_instance` should be called `flag_instance` but this is kept for retrocompatibility).

```python
from flag.signals import content_flagged

def something_was_flagged(sender, signal, flagged_content, flagged_instance):
    # do something here

content_flagged.connect(something_was_flagged)
```

This signal is sent only when a *new* flag is created, not when the add fail and not when a flag is updated. And only when it is created via the form. When saved in admin or in a shell, the signal is not sent. In the shell you must pass a `send_signal` parameter (`True`) to the `save` or `add` methods. If you want a signal sent for *every* save of a flag, you can use the django `post_save` one.

### Mails

When an object is flagged, and if the `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` setting is `True`, the `SEND_MAILS_RULES` rules will be analyzed and if one matching the current count of flags for this object, a mail is send to recipients defined in `SEND_MAILS_TO`.

The subjet and body of the sent mail are stored in templates `flag/mail_alert_subject.txt` and `flag/mail_alert_body.txt`.

You can override these temlates by two ways :

* create your own `flag/mail_alert_subject.txt` and/or `flag/mail_alert_body.txt` templates
* create, for each model that can be flagged and for which you want a specific template, `flag/mail_alert_subject_applabel_modelname.txt` and/or `flag/mail_alert_body_applabel_modelname.txt` (by replacing *app_label* and *model_name* by the good values, ex. `auth` and `user` for the `User` model in `django.contrib.auth`).

## Other things you would want to know

### More template filters

*django-flag* provides 3 more simple filters to use in your application :

* `{{ an_object|can_be_flagged_by:request.user }}` Will return *True* or *False* depending if the user can flag this object or not, regarding all the flag settings
* `{{ an_object|flag_count }}` : Will return the number of flag for this object
* `{{ an_object|flag_status }}` : Will return the current flag status for this object (see the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings above for more informations about status)

### Creator

*django-flag* can save the *creator* of the flagged objects in its own model.
This can be used to retrieve all flagged objects of one user :

```python
flagged_objects = user.flagged_content.all()
```

To set the creator, it's as easy as adding the name of the creator field of the flagged object as a parameter to the `flag` templatetag or the `flag_confirm_url` filter.
Then django-flag will check it and save a reference into its model.
Example, with `an_object` having a `author` field as a *ForeignKey* to the `User` model :

```html
{% flag an_object 'author' %}
<a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url:'author' }}">flag</a>
```

### Status
In *django-flag* a flag has a status. By default it's set to the first entrie of the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings (or a specific `STATUSES` setting for a specific model), which must have 1 has value.

But we provide some ways to let staff update the status by adding a `status` field in the form, filled with entries from the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings. :

* a new (third) parameter to the `flag` templatetag, to be set to True (or whatever sounds like True...)
* a temlpate tag `flag_with_status`, workin the same way as `flag` with the third paramter to True
* a template filter : `flag_confirm_url_with_status`, working the same way as `flag_confirm_url`

Note that if the user is not staff, displaying or validating the form with the `status` field will raise an exception.

Exemple of usage :

```html
{% if user.is_staff %}
    <a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url_with_status }}">Update flag's status</a>
{% else %}
    <a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url }}">flag</a>
{% endif %}
```

or without confirmation page :

```html
{# `0` is here to say "no creator_field" #}
{% flag an_object 0 user.is_staff %}
```

When the status is updated, the flagger is saved as the last moderator (`moderator` field in the `FlaggedContent` model)

### GenericRelation and filters

If you want to retrive some objects with a flag of a specific status, your can add a `GenericRelation` to your model:

```python
from flag.models import FlaggedContent

class MyModel(models.Model):
    ...
    flagged = GenericRelation(FlaggedContent)
```

and then do :

```python
objects = MyModel.objects.filter(flagged__status=1)
```

If you cannot add a `GenericRelation` (if you can't update a model), you can do this :

```python
ct_filter = {'content_type__app_label': MyModel._meta.app_label, 'content_type__model': MyModel._meta.model_name}
objects = MyModel.filter(id__in=FlaggedContent.objects.filter(**ct_filter).values_list('object_id', flat=True).filter(status=1))
```

or this, with a helper we provide :

```python
objects = MyModel.filter(id__in=FlaggedContent.objects.filter_for_model(MyModel, only_object_ids=True).filter(status=1))
```

### Tests

*django-flag* is fully tested. Just run `manage.py test flag` in your project.
If `django-nose` is installed, it is used to run tests. You can see a coverage of 98%. Admin and some weird `next` parameters are not tested.

*django-flag* also provide a test project, where you can flag users (no other model included).

### Admin

The admin interface for *django-flag* has been improved a bit : better list and change form with for this one, links to flagged objects and their authors.


## Internal

### Models

There is two models in *django-flag*, `FlaggedContent` and `FlagInstance`, described below.
When an object is flagged for the first time, a `FlaggedContent` is created, and each flag add a `FlagInstance` object.
The `status`, `count` and `when_updated` fields of the `FlaggedContent` object are updated on each flag.

#### FlaggedContent

This model keeps a reference to the flagged object, store its current status, the flags count, the last moderator, and, eventually, its creator (the user who created the flagged object)
The `count` is the sum of all `FlagInstance` for the flagged object with a `status` of 1 (the moderations flag are ignored in the count).

#### FlagInstance

Each flag is stored in this model, which store the user/flagger, the flagged content, an optional comment, the date of the flag, and the status (to keep history)

You can add a flag programmatically with :

```python
FlagInstance.objects.add(flagging_user, object_to_flag, 'creator field (or None)', 'a comment')
```

In previous version, a `add_flag` (in `models.py`) function was the way to add a flag. It is always here, for retrocompatibility, but with a simple call to `FlagInstance.objects.add`.

### Views and urls

*django-flag* has two urls and views :

* one to display the confirm page, (url `flag_confirm`, view `confirm`), with some parameters : `app_label`, `object_name`, `object_id`, `creator_field` (the last one is optionnal)
* one to flag (only POST allowed) (url `flag`, view `flag`), without any parameter

### Security

The form used by *django-flag* is based on a the `CommentSecurityForm` provided by `django.contrib.comments.forms`.
It provides a security_hash to limit spoofing (we don't directly use `CommentSecurityForm`, but a duplicate, because we don't want to import the comments models)

When something forbidden is done (bad security hash, object the user can't flag...), a `FlagBadRequest` (based on `HttpResponseBadRequest`) is returned.
While in debug mode, this `FlagBadRequest` doesn't return a HTTP error (400), but render a template with more information.

Commit message:

the trust evaluation function is now easily overridable + a test for it.

README.md, after:

# django-flag

This app lets users of your site flag content as inappropriate or spam.

PS : the version 0.3 is a big rewrite, but with retrocompatibility kept in mind. 0.4 broke a little this compatibility by updating fields inmodels.

## Where's Wally ?

The original code is here : https://github.com/pinax/django-flag
This fork (by twidi) is here : https://github.com/twidi/django-flag

## Installation

*django-flag* has no requirements, except *django* (1.3) of course

`pip install git+git://github.com/twidi/django-flag.git#egg=django-flag`

## Settings

The behavior of *django-flag* can be tweaked with some settings :

### FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS

Set `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` to False to disallow users to add a comment when flagging an object.
Default to `True`.

### FLAG_LIMIT_SAME_OBJECT_FOR_USER

Set `FLAG_LIMIT_SAME_OBJECT_FOR_USER` to a number to limit the times a user can flag a single object.
If 0, there is no limit.
Default to `0`.

### FLAG_LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT

Set `FLAG_LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT` to a number to limit the times an object can be flagged.
If 0, there is no limit.
Default to `0`.

### FLAG_MODELS

Set `FLAG_MODELS` to a list/tuple of models to limit the models that can be flagged.
For each model, use a string like '*applabel.modelname*'.
If not set (`None`), all models can be flagged. If set to an empty list/tuple, no model can be flagged.
Default to `None`.

### FLAG_STATUSES

Set `FLAG_STATUSES` to a list of tuples to set the available statuses for each flagged content.
The first entry MUST be a (small: less than 256) positive integer
The default status used when a user flag an object is the first of this list.
Default to :

```python
FLAG_STATUSES = [
    (1, _("flagged")),
    (2, _("flag rejected by moderator")),
    (3, _("creator notified")),
    (4, _("content removed by creator")),
    (5, _("content removed by moderator")),
]
```

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` to `True` if you want to have emails sent when object are flagged.
See others settings `SEND_MAILS_*` for more configuration
Default to `False`

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_TO
Set `FLAG_SEMD_MAILS_TO` to a list of email addresses to sent mails when an object is flagged.
Each entry can be either a single email address, or a tuple with (name, email address) but only the mail will be used.
Default to `settings.ADMINS`


### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_FROM
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS_FROM` to an email address to use as the send of mails sent when an object is flagged.
Default to `settings.DEFAULT_FROM_EMAIL`

### FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES
Set `FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES` to define when to send mails for flags.
This settings is a list of tuple, each line defining a rule.
A rule is a tuple with two entries, the first one is the minimum flag for an object for which this rule apply, and the second one is the frequency :
Example : `(4, 3)` = if an object is flagged 4 times or more, send a mail every 3 flags (4, 7 and 10)
If this rule is followed by `(10, 5)`, it will be used only when an object is flagged between 5 (included) and 10 times (not included), then the `10` rules will apply (10, 15, 20...)
A mail will be send if the LIMIT_FOR_OBJECT is reached, ignoring the rules.
Default to `[(1, 1)` : send a mail for each flag (if `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` is `True`)

Exemple:

```python
# mail will be send for 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25...
FLAG_SEND_MAILS_RULES = [
    (1, 1),  # send a mail for every flag
    (4, 3),  # send a mail every 3 flags starting to the 5th flag
    (10, 5), # send a mail every 5 flags starting to the 10th flag
]
```

### FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS
Use `FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS` if you want to override the global settings for a specific model.
It's a dict with the string represetation of the model (`myapp.mymodel`) as key, and a dict as value. This last dict can have zero, one or more of the settings described in this module (`MODELS` and of course `MODELS_SETTINGS`), using names WITHOUT the `FLAG_` prefix
Default to an empty dict : each model will use the global settings

Exemple:

```python
FLAG_SEND_MAILS = True
FLAG_SEND_MAILS_TO = ('foo@example.com',)
FLAG_MODELS_SETTINGS = {
    'myapp.mymodel': {
        'SEND_MAILS_TO': ('bar@example.com', 'baz@example.com',)
    }
    'otherapp.othermodel': {
        'SEND_MAILS': False,
        'STATUSES': [
            (1, 'Simple flag'),
            (2, 'Rejected by moderator'),
            (3, 'Rejected by super-moderator'),
            (4, 'Accepted by moderator'),
            (5, 'Accepted by super-moderator'),
        ]
    },
}
```

### FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST
Use `FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST` if you want the flags from untrusted users to be deleted

Exemple:

```python
FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST = True
```

### FLAG_TRUST_TIME
This is the number of days after a user suscribed before he is 'trusted' and thus can flag content

Exemple

```python
FLAG_TRUST_TIME = 3
```

## Usage

* add `flag` to your INSTALLED_APPS
* add the urls to your urls : `url(r'^flag/', include('flag.urls')),`


*djang-flag* provides some usefull templatetags and filters to be included via `{% load flag_tags %}`.

There are two ways to use these templatetags to use *django-flag* :

### Only the flag form

On any page you can use the `flag` templatetag to add a form for flagging the object.
This form will or will not have a comment box, depending of your `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` settings.
This templatetag is an *inclusion_tag* calling the template `flag/flag_form.html`, so you can easily override it.

This default template is as simple as :

```html
<form method="POST" action="{% url flag %}">{% csrf_token %}
    {{ form.as_p }}
    {% if next %}<input type="hidden" name="next" value="{{ next }}{% endif %}" />
    <input type="submit" value="Submit Flag" /></td>
</form>
```

Usage:

```html
{% load flag_tags %}
{% flag an_object %}
```

If you want a moderator (user with `is_staff`) to update the status of the flagged content (default to 1 for a normal flag), you can use the `flag_with_status` temlatetag instead of the `flag` one. They both work the same way.

### Flag via a confirmation page

If you want the form to be on an other page, which play the role of a confirmation page, you can use the `flag_confirm_url` template filter, which will insert the url of the confirm page for this object.
This url is linked to a view which will display the confirm form (with or without a comment box, depending of your `FLAG_ALLOW_COMMENTS` settings.) in a template `flag/confirm.html`.

This default template is as simple as :

```html
{% block flag_form %}
    {% include "flag/flag_form.html" %}
{% endblock %}
```

You can override the template used by this view by two ways :

* create your own `flag/confirm.html` template
* create, for each model that can be flagged and for which you want a specific template, a template `flag/confirm_applabel_modelname.html` (by replacing *app_label* and *model_name* by the good values, ex. `auth` and `user` for the `User` model in `django.contrib.auth`).

Usage of the filter:

```html
{% load flag_tags %}
<a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url }}">flag</a>
```

If you want a moderator (user with `is_staff`) to update the status of the flagged content (default to 1 for a normal flag), you can use the `flag_confirm_url_with_status` filter instead of the `flag_confirm_url` one. They both work the same way.

### Signal

When an object is flagged, a signal `content_flagged` is sent, with the `flagged_content` and `flagged_instance` objects (`flagged_instance` should be called `flag_instance` but this is kept for retrocompatibility).

```python
from flag.signals import content_flagged

def something_was_flagged(sender, signal, flagged_content, flagged_instance):
    # do something here

content_flagged.connect(something_was_flagged)
```

This signal is sent only when a *new* flag is created, not when the add fail and not when a flag is updated. And only when it is created via the form. When saved in admin or in a shell, the signal is not sent. In the shell you must pass a `send_signal` parameter (`True`) to the `save` or `add` methods. If you want a signal sent for *every* save of a flag, you can use the django `post_save` one.

### Mails

When an object is flagged, and if the `FLAG_SEND_MAILS` setting is `True`, the `SEND_MAILS_RULES` rules will be analyzed and if one matching the current count of flags for this object, a mail is send to recipients defined in `SEND_MAILS_TO`.

The subjet and body of the sent mail are stored in templates `flag/mail_alert_subject.txt` and `flag/mail_alert_body.txt`.

You can override these temlates by two ways :

* create your own `flag/mail_alert_subject.txt` and/or `flag/mail_alert_body.txt` templates
* create, for each model that can be flagged and for which you want a specific template, `flag/mail_alert_subject_applabel_modelname.txt` and/or `flag/mail_alert_body_applabel_modelname.txt` (by replacing *app_label* and *model_name* by the good values, ex. `auth` and `user` for the `User` model in `django.contrib.auth`).

## Other things you would want to know

### More template filters

*django-flag* provides 3 more simple filters to use in your application :

* `{{ an_object|can_be_flagged_by:request.user }}` Will return *True* or *False* depending if the user can flag this object or not, regarding all the flag settings
* `{{ an_object|flag_count }}` : Will return the number of flag for this object
* `{{ an_object|flag_status }}` : Will return the current flag status for this object (see the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings above for more informations about status)

### Creator

*django-flag* can save the *creator* of the flagged objects in its own model.
This can be used to retrieve all flagged objects of one user :

```python
flagged_objects = user.flagged_content.all()
```

To set the creator, it's as easy as adding the name of the creator field of the flagged object as a parameter to the `flag` templatetag or the `flag_confirm_url` filter.
Then django-flag will check it and save a reference into its model.
Example, with `an_object` having a `author` field as a *ForeignKey* to the `User` model :

```html
{% flag an_object 'author' %}
<a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url:'author' }}">flag</a>
```

### Status
In *django-flag* a flag has a status. By default it's set to the first entrie of the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings (or a specific `STATUSES` setting for a specific model), which must have 1 has value.

But we provide some ways to let staff update the status by adding a `status` field in the form, filled with entries from the `FLAG_STATUSES` settings. :

* a new (third) parameter to the `flag` templatetag, to be set to True (or whatever sounds like True...)
* a temlpate tag `flag_with_status`, workin the same way as `flag` with the third paramter to True
* a template filter : `flag_confirm_url_with_status`, working the same way as `flag_confirm_url`

Note that if the user is not staff, displaying or validating the form with the `status` field will raise an exception.

Exemple of usage :

```html
{% if user.is_staff %}
    <a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url_with_status }}">Update flag's status</a>
{% else %}
    <a href="{{ an_object|flag_confirm_url }}">flag</a>
{% endif %}
```

or without confirmation page :

```html
{# `0` is here to say "no creator_field" #}
{% flag an_object 0 user.is_staff %}
```

When the status is updated, the flagger is saved as the last moderator (`moderator` field in the `FlaggedContent` model)

### GenericRelation and filters

If you want to retrive some objects with a flag of a specific status, your can add a `GenericRelation` to your model:

```python
from flag.models import FlaggedContent

class MyModel(models.Model):
    ...
    flagged = GenericRelation(FlaggedContent)
```

and then do :

```python
objects = MyModel.objects.filter(flagged__status=1)
```

If you cannot add a `GenericRelation` (if you can't update a model), you can do this :

```python
ct_filter = {'content_type__app_label': MyModel._meta.app_label, 'content_type__model': MyModel._meta.model_name}
objects = MyModel.filter(id__in=FlaggedContent.objects.filter(**ct_filter).values_list('object_id', flat=True).filter(status=1))
```

or this, with a helper we provide :

```python
objects = MyModel.filter(id__in=FlaggedContent.objects.filter_for_model(MyModel, only_object_ids=True).filter(status=1))
```

### Tests

*django-flag* is fully tested. Just run `manage.py test flag` in your project.
If `django-nose` is installed, it is used to run tests. You can see a coverage of 98%. Admin and some weird `next` parameters are not tested.

*django-flag* also provide a test project, where you can flag users (no other model included).

### Admin

The admin interface for *django-flag* has been improved a bit : better list and change form with for this one, links to flagged objects and their authors.

### Trusted user

If the setting FLAG_NEEDS_TRUST is set to True, every time a user flag a content, the user is evaluated with the function passed in settings.FLAG_TRUST_EVAL_FUNC, by default it is utils.can_user_be_trusted. If you want to change how an user is considered trusted, write a function which take only the user as an argument, and return a Boolean (True if the user can be trusted).
The default evaluating function only returns True if the user has created his account for more than settings.FLAG_TRUST_TIME days.

## Internal

### Models

There is two models in *django-flag*, `FlaggedContent` and `FlagInstance`, described below.
When an object is flagged for the first time, a `FlaggedContent` is created, and each flag add a `FlagInstance` object.
The `status`, `count` and `when_updated` fields of the `FlaggedContent` object are updated on each flag.

#### FlaggedContent

This model keeps a reference to the flagged object, store its current status, the flags count, the last moderator, and, eventually, its creator (the user who created the flagged object)
The `count` is the sum of all `FlagInstance` for the flagged object with a `status` of 1 (the moderations flag are ignored in the count).

#### FlagInstance

Each flag is stored in this model, which store the user/flagger, the flagged content, an optional comment, the date of the flag, and the status (to keep history)

You can add a flag programmatically with :

```python
FlagInstance.objects.add(flagging_user, object_to_flag, 'creator field (or None)', 'a comment')
```

In previous version, a `add_flag` (in `models.py`) function was the way to add a flag. It is always here, for retrocompatibility, but with a simple call to `FlagInstance.objects.add`.

### Views and urls

*django-flag* has two urls and views :

* one to display the confirm page, (url `flag_confirm`, view `confirm`), with some parameters : `app_label`, `object_name`, `object_id`, `creator_field` (the last one is optionnal)
* one to flag (only POST allowed) (url `flag`, view `flag`), without any parameter

### Security

The form used by *django-flag* is based on a the `CommentSecurityForm` provided by `django.contrib.comments.forms`.
It provides a security_hash to limit spoofing (we don't directly use `CommentSecurityForm`, but a duplicate, because we don't want to import the comments models)

When something forbidden is done (bad security hash, object the user can't flag...), a `FlagBadRequest` (based on `HttpResponseBadRequest`) is returned.
While in debug mode, this `FlagBadRequest` doesn't return a HTTP error (400), but render a template with more information.
